# Database and data

What is data?
    Data refers to the individual facts and figures that are stored in the database. 
    Data can be quantitative or qualitative, and it can be structured or unstructured. 
    Examples:
    Quantitative data is numerical data.
    Qualitative data is non-numerical data.
    Structured data is data that is organized in a way that makes it easy to store, retrieve, and process (data in relational database).
    Unstructured data is data that is not organized. For example, data in a text document or an image is unstructered. 

What is a database?
    A database is an organized collection of data, typically stored electronically and systematically in a computer system. 
    Databases are designed to store, retrieve, and manage data efficiently.
    Databases are used in a wide variaty of applications, including e-commerce, banking, and healthcare. 
    There are many different types of databases, but they all share some common features. 
    A database is typically divided into tables, which are collection of related data. 
    Each table has a set of columns, which represent the different attributes of the data.

Examples:
Table/Entity: customers (
    customer_id INT UNIQUE, # An attribute of an entity
    name VARCHAR,
    address VARCHAR,
    phone INT,
    email VARCHAR
)

Table/Entity: person (
    name VARCHAR,
    age INT,
    email VARCHAR,
    birth_date DATE
)

Table/Entity: consumers (
    order_id INT,
    description VARCHAR,
    quantity INT,
    purchase_date DATE,
    email VARCHAR
)

Most common types of databases:
    Relational databases are the most common type of database. 
    They store data in tables/entities and each table has a set of columns that represent the different attributes of data. 

    Object-oriented databases are a type of database that is designed to store objects, which are complex data structures that encapsulate data and behavior.
    Object-oriented databases are not as common as relational databases, but they are used in applications that require a high degree of flexibility and scalability. 

    NoSQL databases are a newer type of database that is not based on the relational model. 
    NoSQL databases are designed to store and manage unstructured data, such as text, images, and videos. 
    NoSQL databases are becoming popular because they are more scalable and flexible than relational databases.

    Graph databases are a type of NoSQL database that store data as a network of nodes and edges. 
    Nodes represent entities and edges represent the relationships between those entities. 

    A document database, also known as a document-oriented database is a type of NoSQL database that stores data as documents.
    Documents are self-contained units of data that can store key-value pairs, arrays, and nested objects.
    Documents are typically stored in JSON-format, which is a human-readable and machine-parsable data. 
    Document databases are designed to store and manage unstructured or semi-structured data. 

    Columnar databases are a type of database that is designed to store data in columns rather than rows.
    This can improve the performance of queries that involve aggregating data, such as finding the average value of a column. 

    Wide-column databases are a type of database that is designed to store strucutred data. 
    Wide-column databases are similar to NoSQL databases, but they are optimized for storing and retrieving data that is organized into columns. 

How are databases managed?
    Databases are managed by database management systems (DBMS).
    DBMSs are software programs that provide a set of tools for creating, accessing, and manipulating data in a database. 
    DBMSs typically support a variety of features, such as the ability to:
    - Define the structure of a database, including the tables, columns, and data types. 
    - Create and modify data in a database. 
    - Retrieve data from a database. 
    - Secure a database from unauthorized access. 
    - Enforce data integrity, which means that the data in a database is accurate and consistent. 

Where are the databases stored?
    A database can be hosted on a dedicated machine on-site.
    It can also be hosted on the cloud, and these are typically called cloud databases. 
    Cloud databases are databases that are hosted on a cloud computing platform.
    They are becoming popular because that are easy to manage and scale, and they can be accessed from anywhere. 