# How is data related?

Data stored in a database cannot exist in isolation. 
Data is/can be realted in a number of ways. One way is through the use of primary and foreign keys.
A primary key is a unique identifier for a record in a database. 
A primary key field contains unique values that cannot be replicated elsewhere in the table. 
This avoids potential confusion between tables with similarities in data.

Another type of keys is foreign key. A foreign key is a field in one table that references the primary key of another table. 
This creates a relationship between two tables. 
Examples:
    Table/Entity: customers (
        customer_id INT UNIQUE PRIMARY KEY, # An attribute of an entity
        name VARCHAR,
        address VARCHAR,
        phone INT,
        email VARCHAR
    )

    Table/Entity: consumers (
    order_id INT,
    customer_id INT FOREIGN KEY,
    description VARCHAR,
    quantity INT,
    purchase_date DATE,
    email VARCHAR
    )

    These two tables are linked through customer_id.

Relational data example charts
    It is important to organize data, process it, and present it efficiently to make it more useful and meaningful to people.
    The way data is related and presented enables people to form a better understanding of existing data. 
    This understanding can be aided by relevant charts that present data visually using combinations of text, symbols, and graphic elements to illustrate the relationships between data in a meaningful way. 

    Charts can convey a great deal of information and can capture people´s attention in a way that helps them to make better decisions and take suitable actions. 
    Below are basic charts commonly used to relate data together and present it in a simple visual way. 

    Bar chart
        A bar chart is a graph that presents categorical data with rectangular bars, where the heights of the bars are proportional to the values that they represent.
        
    Bubble chart
        A bubble chart is another popular type of data chart. It shows how different values compare to each other in terms of bubble size. 
        The smaller bubbles represent smaller values, and the larger bubbles represent larger values. 

    Line chart
        A line chart presents information as a series of data points called "markers", connected by straight line segment. 
        Line charts are extremely popular and are widely used in most daya analytics fields. 
        Data analysts commonly use this chart to predict the market´s future based on overall trends. 

    Pie chart
        A pie chart is another type of data chart that displays how various data make up a whole of 100 percent. 
        In this type of chart, each data point is called a "slice" of the pie according to its value. 

    In addition to the presented charts, other charts could be used for different purposes. 
    An example is the area chart, which combines the line chart and the bar chart to compare two or more quanitites of data. 
    Other commonly used charts include:
        Dual axis charts
        Gannt charts
        Heat maps
        Scatter plot charts

What chart do I choose to present my data?
    Some charts can serve multiple purposes, whereas others are much better at conveying specific types of information to the audience.
    The answer to the question depends on several factors, including:
        The target audience who will use the information
        The idea you intend to present
        The goal you want to achieve

    